README.md, before:

# Biomechanical Neural Network Analysis of the Straight Drive in Cricket

## Project Overview
This project develops a biomechanics analysis system using neural networks to evaluate cricket straight drives. The system uses pose estimation and deep learning to classify technique, identify key movement phases, and provide corrective feedback to athletes and coaches.

## Key Features
- **Pose Tracking**: Captures a player's joint positions using pose estimation models
- **Movement Analysis**: Extracts kinematic features such as joint angles and bat trajectory
- **Neural Network Classifier**: Uses LSTM-based deep learning to recognize proper vs. improper execution
- **Technique Scoring**: Assigns performance scores and flags biomechanical inefficiencies
- **Real-time Feedback**: Provides actionable coaching cues

## Project Structure
```
biomechanics/
├── data/                      # Data storage directory
│   ├── raw/                   # Raw video files
│   ├── processed/             # Processed pose data
│   └── labeled/               # Annotated datasets
├── src/                       # Source code
│   ├── data_collection/       # Scripts for video capture and pose extraction
│   ├── preprocessing/         # Data cleaning and preparation
│   ├── feature_engineering/   # Joint angle calculations and feature extraction
│   ├── model/                 # Neural network architecture and training
│   ├── visualization/         # Visualization tools
│   └── inference/             # Inference pipeline and feedback system
├── notebooks/                 # Jupyter notebooks for exploration and demos
├── tests/                     # Unit and integration tests
├── configs/                   # Configuration files
├── requirements.txt           # Python dependencies
└── README.md                  # Project documentation
```

## Setup and Installation
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/lokesh-nuvvula/Biomechanics.git
cd Biomechanics

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage
[To be added in future sprints]

## Contributing
[Contributing guidelines to be added]

## License
This project is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Sprint 2 – Added image-based cricket shot classification using MediaPipe and LSTM. Includes pose extraction, joint angle feature engineering, multiclass model training, batch prediction, enhanced visualizations, and model evaluation.

README.md, after:

# Biomechanical Neural Network Analysis of Cricket Shots

## Project Overview
This project develops a biomechanics analysis system using neural networks to evaluate cricket shots. The system uses pose estimation and deep learning to classify technique, identify key movement phases, and provide corrective feedback to athletes and coaches.

## Key Features
- **Pose Tracking**: Captures a player's joint positions using pose estimation models
- **Movement Analysis**: Extracts kinematic features such as joint angles and bat trajectory
- **Neural Network Classifier**: Uses LSTM-based deep learning to recognize proper vs. improper execution
- **Technique Scoring**: Assigns performance scores and flags biomechanical inefficiencies
- **Real-time Feedback**: Provides actionable coaching cues
- **Multiclass Shot Classification**: Identifies different cricket shot types from static images

## Project Structure
```
biomechanics/
├── data/                      # Data storage directory
│   ├── raw/                   # Raw video and image files
│   │   └── images/            # Cricket shot images by type
│   ├── processed/             # Processed pose data
│   └── labeled/               # Annotated datasets
├── src/                       # Source code
│   ├── data_collection/       # Scripts for video/image capture and pose extraction
│   ├── preprocessing/         # Data cleaning and preparation
│   ├── feature_engineering/   # Joint angle calculations and feature extraction
│   ├── model/                 # Neural network architecture and training
│   ├── visualization/         # Visualization tools
│   └── inference/             # Inference pipeline and feedback system
├── notebooks/                 # Jupyter notebooks for exploration and demos
├── tests/                     # Unit and integration tests
├── configs/                   # Configuration files
├── models/                    # Trained model files
├── results/                   # Prediction results and visualizations
├── requirements.txt           # Python dependencies
└── README.md                  # Project documentation
```

## Setup and Installation
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/lokesh-nuvvula/Biomechanics.git
cd Biomechanics

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Video Analysis System
For analyzing cricket shots from video sequences, see the Jupyter notebook demos:
```bash
jupyter notebook notebooks/01_cricket_biomechanics_demo.ipynb
```

### Image Classification System
For classifying cricket shots from static images:

```bash
# Train the classifier
python src/train_image_classifier.py --extract_poses --visualize

# Predict on new images
python src/predict_cricket_shot.py --model models/cricket_shot_classifier.pt --input path/to/image.jpg --visualize
```

For detailed instructions on the image classification system, see [README_IMAGE_CLASSIFIER.md](README_IMAGE_CLASSIFIER.md).

## Contributing
[Contributing guidelines to be added]

## License
This project is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License - see the LICENSE file for details.
